Hello, testing, testing.
Okay, there we go.
Hi, good morning.
So, yeah, as Boris said, I'm a stand
-in for Honeydroid, my boss at Tangled
.
Yeah, so what he was going to talk about was Tang
led, the business end as a Mr.
Business, on how they raise money and how one raises money
in general using VC and using Ad Proto together.
But first of all, he's not here, and I
'm an engineer, so I'm going to talk about engineering
things, and I hope you guys are all okay with that
.
I do know a modicum of what they went through
because I'm a bit of a Nepo baby.
I knew Honeydroid from our UpCloud days together,
so maybe I can perhaps speak of my perspective.
This is the Lewis end, so take every single thing you
hear from me with a grain of salt.
So, yeah, architecture diagrams, I think I'm going
to have it a little more informal.
I hope that you guys heckle me, actually.
Like, at any moment, raise your hand if you like
, and we can force Boris to pass around the mic.
Yeah, so, also, online people on StreamPlace
.
I would actually like it if somebody, maybe Boris as well
, or I don't know, somebody else, if we
could have somebody reading the StreamPlace chat so that I
can get messaged.
I didn't have enough time to actually put up ArcUp
OBS studio on this thing and overlay some sort of Stream
Place chat over my computer here so that I could see
the questions directly.
But, anyway, I want you to know online that I
care about you.
So, yeah, about me.
Question from the Stream.
Who is this little guy?
I'm about to get to that.
All right, so, yeah.
Well, @oyster.
cafe, I thought that was a little more professional.
I changed it recently.
I was Lewis.
moe, but there's a connotation to the .
moe TLD, so...
So, it's on oyster.
cafe.
You know, I like oysters and I like cafes, so
.
Oh, yeah, the arrow's a little misplaced
with two screens.
I couldn't get it right either way, right?
I'd have to mirror it, but imagine me under both
of them right now.
I thought that was a little more professional.
I changed it recently.
I was lewis.
moe, but there's a connotation to the .
moe TLD.
So it's on oyster.
cafe.
You know, I like oysters and I like cafes.
Oh, yeah, the arrow's a little misplaced
with two screens.
I couldn't get it right either way, right?
I'd have to mirror it, but imagine me under both
of them right now.
That is me.
I actually have this little chick thing in my bag and F
IG SCP contained it for me because they had a little box
.
But anyway, if you want to see it later, it
's real.
Wow.
I'm a software engineer.
As I said, I've been working at UpCloud,
which is a Finnish cloud company.
But then a month ago, I got hired at Tangled
because they raised 3.
8 million euros and started paying me with it.
No, not all of it, but yeah, wow.
It all goes to the Lewis Fund.
No, not really.
I'm from Australia, but yeah, I'm living in
Finland.
We're Tangled, kind of.
It's in a co-working space at the moment,
and I'll talk about that in a sec, maybe.
But yeah, I mean, that's kind of me.
Just a little guy.
Who is this little guy?
I don't know.
So yeah, here are the founders.
Anirudh and his brother.
I just kind of screenshotted this straight out of Tang
led itself.
These are the big boys.
They've been working for a year to make Tangled what
it is today, so far.
Up until a month ago, they had, I think,
very little runway to actually do it, so it's kind
of like a make or break thing.
And they've done super well, in my opinion, in
the Lewis end of things.
So they have recently hired me, and we have a part
-time student dev, Boltless, from South Korea.
So we're kind of like a remote-ish first company
, and I'm breaking that rule with Anirudh
by having this co-working space in Helsinki, where
I can host all my mini PCs and freaky little Lewis
Cloud applications.
Yes.
I'd like to talk a little bit about my take on
Tangled before joining, like six months ago, nine months
ago-ish, because, yeah, as I said,
I knew Anirudh personally, and I was interested
vaguely in what he's doing after he quit UpCloud
to do Tangled.
Actually, this was before Tangled had its own hosted PD
S, so I had to make a Blue Sky account.
Hmm, I was like, what the, why do I
have to do this?
Why can't I just sign up to Tangled itself?
So that was an interesting little piece of friction before secondary apps
with their own PDSs came into the, became more
normal, should I say.
And my take, once I logged in for the first time
, that it was, I would, it was, it
made sense.
It's a utilitarian thing, I'm all about that
.
It just kind of shows you what you need to see.
Oh, actually, I haven't even said what Tangled
is.
Hands up, who knows what Tangled already is?
Okay, okay, I mean, that's most of you
, but not all.
So Tangled is a Git forge.
I don't think I'm allowed to say GitHub competitor,
but we're, you know, it's using @pr
oto.
The tagline is tightly knit social coding.
So if you wanted to use Git yourself on a server,
you can go ahead and do that, and it's all
well and good.
But if you want issues and PRs, and you want
to collaborate with people more easily, then you're going to
need, like, an actual social thingy.
So Anirudh and his brother were, like,
thinking, well, what's the best kind of social open
infrastructure that we could choose to make that happen or, like
, plug into?
And what do you know?
I wonder which one it ended up being.
So, yeah.
Alrighty.
Yeah, so I mentioned that it's kind of like a
GitHub competitor, but Tangled basically aims to go above and
beyond.
The baseline is having everything that everybody already knows and uses,
but then beyond that, there are all sorts of nice features
that we got either today already or coming down in the pipeline
.
Right now, this is a screenshot of a stacked PR that
I have PR'd.
It's actually not closed yet, so it's a very
...
Yeah, it's close to my heart.
It needs to be merged soon, this one.
But...
Who has used Jiu-Jitsu before?
The, like, Git superset.
Oh my god.
Okay.
Less hands.
Jiu-Jitsu.
Who knows what Jiu-Jitsu is?
Okay.
I mean, kind of the same hands, I think.
Jiu-Jitsu is like a superset on Git
.
It's nice.
Was it made by Google originally?
I don't know the history.
But I was kind of not forced to use Jiu-
Jitsu when starting Tangled, but they highly encouraged that
I try it, you know, like a Brussels sprout.
And I tried it, and I like it a lot,
actually, now.
So I'm submitting stacked PRs all the time, and
this is one of them.
Maybe you'll notice that usually when you have a PR in
GitHub or anywhere else, the convention is that you want everything
in one massive commit, so that your commit history isn't
horrible after the fact.
Which means that when you're trying to push big features,
you have to make them entirely separate PRs, and then
you kind of lose what's going on.
You have to have issue trackers or actual full-on
tracking apps separately from your Git forge.
Or you have it in one massive PR, and that is
also just like a monster PR that takes weeks or months to
review all in one go.
So what stacked PRs gives you is that you can kind
of chunk things into each commit being its own like separate mini
PR, and you can go through them one by one.
You can merge a subset of them if you like.
So if we said that we like everything up to 1137
there, we could just merge all of those and then continue
on the rest of them if we weren't so sure about
the rest of them.
We can clear them one by one.
It kind of forces me, the submitter of the stacked
PR, to also break up my commits into logical chunks.
I think some people do it like chronologically speaking, but
I think that the dimensionality personally for me, how I
've been doing it, is that any one of them could
be merged like semi-independently of one another.
But currently stacked PRs can only be merged bottom to top
.
So yeah, that's one value add as an example.
So that concludes the normal human slides, and now I'm
going to go straight into architecture diagrams.
I hope everybody's okay with that.
Let's start easily and simply.
This is an extremely, extremely simplified view of the blue sky
infrastructure.
Not necessarily at proto spec, because we have a relay in
there, which is, I'll talk about that later.
So in green, these little arrows with the hole in the
arrowhead, those are read requests.
This is how I see it.
I don't think, this is not like a standard.
I just kind of made this up.
Because this is, hey, this is tangled the Lewis end
.
So this is how I think about things.
Like a read request goes out, and that's in green
.
And then a write request goes out, and that's in
red.
I think the standard is to make them bidirectional arrows
, but I don't know.
It's kind of difficult for me to understand.
This is missing some of the separate blue sky infra like feed
gen and labelers and stuff that goes out to the side
.
I wonder if I can get my mouse over this.
Yes.
So you'd have more arrows coming out here for feed gen
and labelers, yada, yada, yada
.
But what concerns me is the core here.
So you only ever talk to your PDS, your personal
data server.
Is anybody...
Put your hand up if there's something that you want me
to explain beyond just saying PDS, and I assume that
you know what I'm talking about.
It's a weird question to phrase it.
I mean, I don't know.
I'll just explain everything anyway.
So a PDS is where you store your data, and
then that then goes on and makes a write-esque,
in quotation marks, request to a relay, which then kind
of caches in a time-based cache and forwards it
onto an app view.
You've got like stacked boxes for everything that can have,
you know, one million of them.
But in the blue sky infrastructure, you only have one app
view, so there's no stack there.
And then your PDS forwards on read requests to that app
view that then has like a pool, like a full cache
.
And why I said app view like is that I wanted to
include Red Dwarf from the get-go.
So Red Dwarf is like an app view list,
quote unquote, app view, and just kind of uses F
IG's microcosm tools in lieu of an app view
proper.
So it's a lot easier to run, a lot cheaper
.
And that's something I think is very interesting, and I
think it's kind of the future, but that's just
my opinion.
But yeah, Tango.
Probably a great opportunity as well.
How many people in the room have heard of Red Dwar
f?
Lots.
Yeah, okay.
Wow.
Yeah, decent amount of hands.
Red Dwarf dot app if you want to try it
yourself.
Yeah.
I like it.
I recommend it.
Very good.
So this is Blue Sky as introduction to now what I'm
going to show is how I see the current architecture of Tang
led in comparison to this.
So yeah, we've got more arrows.
We've got more stuff.
So in Blue we've got the PDS-like,
like the data storage, permanent storage layer.
So those are in Blue, and then we have our relay
, and then we have our app view.
So does anyone want to give a shot of what I think
is something that could be improved right from the get-go
?
One of the easiest wins.
Anyone?
Bueller.
We've got a hand in the back.
I'll get to that.
I heard it.
The last question was, "The repos live on the
knot?" Yeah.
The thing I've always been confused by, I was like
, "Why don't I have a repo in my PD
S?" Yeah.
So, well, that's a controversial statement, son.
I don't care.
I agree.
And we'll get to that because we have Louis the Tang
led and Ideal Architecture coming up in a couple of slides
.
But yeah, no, I agree.
I think that a knot is a kind of PDS,
a bastard kind of PDS, and so is a spind
le.
So yeah, which begs the question, what the heck
is a knot and what the heck is a spindle?
So a knot stores your git repos.
Remember, it's a git forge, so your git rep
os have to go somewhere.
And unless we were going to be really stupid and put your
git repos as some weird layer on the MST in
your actual PDS, yeah, there has to be a
second server that is PDS-like because it stores data
and it's personal.
And that's called a knot entangled.
And a spindle is the CI system, so that's
a separate server right now that, I mean, all of
these can be self-hosted.
So you can have your own knot and spindle and eat
it too, even right now.
So that's how it goes.
So they all kind of communicate to each other in a kind
of crazy way, which is fine and good.
Yeah, what was I going to say?
Yeah, there's a recent introduction to this architecture literally last
week that Boltless, our Korean developer, has added,
which I think is really great.
So now there's one more thing.
This is like a spot the difference picture.
What?
So yeah, there's like a relay-ish thing there
.
So I've colored that in orange.
So knot mirror saves all your Git repos on all of
your knots in one sort of place and uses that like as
a cache.
So it's kind of half app view, half relay,
but I think it's a nice little piece of architecture that
I think takes design inspiration from Fig's work.
I think I've mentioned Fig a million times already, but
yeah, very inspirational person in this room.
So yeah, I mean, it looks a little crazy,
but remember that in the blue sky infrastructure one, I specifically
said that I made it super simple and didn't include all
the feed gen and labeler stuff.
But like this is our equivalent, I mean, our knot
mirror will do things, TM, to people's, well
, not doing things to people's Git repos.
But like, you know, we'll have better like search
and stuff without slamming each knot with crazy requests and,
you know, digesting the thing all damn day long.
So yeah, you kind of talk to the app view at
time of speaking instead of the PDS directly, but then
we trust the app view to write to your PDS.
So we've got improvements to make, and that's kind
of actually why they hired me in the first place, is
quote unquote "at protation".
So here's the thing about kind of making a company versus
just making something that's like a love project, is that
you're kind of on a time constraint.
So you've got to get something out, or somebody else
is going to get something out maybe, before you.
And so Tangled has released things into production that need a
little like broom sweeping to make them fully at protated.
So for example, when you edit your PDS records,
usually that's supposed to then go to the, well,
it does go to the relay and then gets up taken by
the app view.
But if your records aren't up taken by the app view
, for whatever reason, then you can't edit your records
.
So, I mean, there are things that you can edit
on Tangled and things that you can't yet.
And my job is to make it all, make it all
work properly.
And with that, I would like to show you my ideal
world.
So yeah, I think this kind of gratuitously resembles the
Blue Sky one.
It's just with three PDS-like things instead of
one.
I would like to absorb the not mirror into an app view
-like.
So fully going microcosm style, like Red Dwar
f.
I mean, again, so take this with a grain of
salt.
This is not Tangled the company's vision.
This is Lewis's mystical ideas that he's showing a room
of other nerds.
You talk to the PDS, that talks to the not
, or like proxies it on with reads and writes
.
And that talks to the spindle, they all talk to
the relay.
Which means that each of the not and spindle have to
act more like a PDS to be sending events to the
relay.
And not tricking it into thinking that they're PDS
's, because they are PDS's, right?
You know, like wink, right?
So actual Blue Sky team who are in charge of the protocol
, stop me now if you don't like this idea.
So yeah.
Can I ask a question, Lewis?
Yeah, you can.
Yeah, go ahead.
So this is super fascinating.
So everything becomes PDS is kind of what you're saying
.
Well, not a spindle, yeah.
If you want an architecture like this.
I mean, even beyond Tangled.
Are you going to have those nots have service endpoints
in a user's diddock?
We'll see.
Remains to be seen.
Yeah, it just depends how far we're willing to go
with it.
Because imagine this.
This may be a feature or a bug, depending on how
you see it.
But the consequence of this kind of architecture, the further we
take it, is that your Git repo and your not could
actually kind of, if it has its own DID, it
could post on Blue Sky.
Your Git repo.
Like if you have a new issue or something, there could
be like a reference as a post on Blue Sky or like
something was merged or something like that.
I don't know, random updates.
Like it could be self-labeled as a bot
account because it's a Git repo, not a human being
.
I don't know.
That seems kind of interesting.
I'd like to show you one more even wackier,
wilder idea that I've been kind of dreaming up at
3am.
Is that another spot the difference is that there's no relay
.
Mmm, imagine that.
With more and more people making cheaper and cheaper like relays
and things.
And I've been talking with a lot of people on how
to make a cheaper implementation.
Not just running something cheaper, but like doing the spec.
Like implementing the protocol more cheaply.
You could just inline it into your app view or app
view like thingamajig.
So there's like less to have to manage.
This remains to be seen.
This is kind of far out.
But I think that maybe you'll hear more from me later
in the year about this sort of thing.
Maybe not even necessarily for Tangled, but maybe I'll
contribute some random stuff to other projects and talk to some other
people who are also thinking relayless, relayless behavior.
So yeah.
Alright.
Concretely speaking, I want to talk about this thing
y back here.
Because I mentioned it earlier.
So maybe if you're curious about what this first major PR
that I've been cooking up for Tangled has been in
the past month that I've been here.
So I haven't got anything else to do.
So I'll show you what I'm doing.
So this is how a NOT stores its data about a Git
repo currently.
Does anybody see something that's not so good about this hand
?
Roscoe.
The repo is owned by one did.
Yeah.
That's one.
Okay.
Roscoe said the repo is owned by one did.
Yeah.
Sure.
The ID is a handle.
I mean that's the one I was looking for.
Hmm.
So yeah.
I mean on the AT protocol your ID is kind of like
supposed to be a did.
A decentralized ID.
So the ID right now of a Git repo is literally the
string, the owner handle slash the repo name.
So there's like multiple things that are needing some love.
You can't really change the repo name if it's in
the ID.
Right?
If it's the primary key.
And then I mean I actually have kind of not bork
ed one of my Git repos.
But I mean as I said at the start of the slides
I changed my username to Oyster.
cafe.
So my Git remotes were like looking for Lewis.
moy.
And I'm like what's going wrong?
What's going wrong?
So it turns out that the Git remote was my handle that
has now changed.
Hmm.
And so I've got this yin yang symbol because we
do actually have a very nice architecture.
I'm not here to slam the existing state of Tangle
.
It's very nice as is.
Like you have one corresponding record on your PDS that says
that you do in fact own this.
So that I can't...
Let's say I have a not.
Which has a Git repo on it.
And I go into the database and I say that the ID
or the owner ID is Obama.
BlueSky.
Social.
And then I have something naughty on that Git repo.
And then if there wasn't this corresponding record on the PD
S of Obama, it wouldn't validate.
Because that would be pretty weird to just say that people own
certain Git repos.
So that's the current state.
So what my PR does is just mint dids for Git
repos on each node.
So when you're not upgrades, when this thing merges
and you're not upgrades, it will basically literally just for
loop through all your Git repos and mint a did for
them.
So I'm sorry to the blue sky people for all the
testing I was doing of like 10,000 at a time
.
Minting dids just to see whether this would work very
well.
Yeah, we can talk about that later.
But yeah, I'm sorry about that.
So yeah, this brings a lot of benefits actually.
So you can transfer ownership of Git repos.
I mean, I haven't got that in the PR,
but that would be coming next, right?
If a Git repo has its own did, then you can
move it around however you like.
You can transfer ownership.
You can transfer it between knots even.
You can do all sorts of things.
You can do anything that you can't do with a regular
actor on the AT proto.
So there are some other ways that I could have gone about
this.
I could have just not done a did.
And I could have also specified that a knot is specifically in
the did doc that when you're minting a did.
I could say that it's a hashtag tangled knot and not
a hashtag AT proto PDS.
But I think that this comes to the Lewis end again.
I think that a knot is a kind of PDS because
it stores data.
I mean, maybe it's not personal.
But yeah, another thing that this unlocks when a Git
repo has a did is that we can probably do collaboration better
.
We already have collaborators as a list that you can add other
collaborators who are like co-owners of a Git repo,
but there's still like one owner.
I mean, yeah.
Any questions at this point?
Because I'm going to start yapping even more yapp
ily after this.
All right.
So if there's random time, then there's random topics
.
So we got seven minutes for me to yap.
I think I'll start with psyops actually in general and
how that relates at all to Tangled.
When I was working at UpCloud for the past year,
I was also doing marketing as well as software engineering.
I was kind of like dev railing as a guerilla
marketer.
And maybe you know of UpCloud because UpCloud was on
blue sky shitposting.
And I'm here to say right now why Tangled isn
't shitposting the same way since I got hired.
Because I can do that and it has been proven to,
I don't know, get some people at least giving it
a thumbs up.
And the reason is that it's a psyop.
UpCloud is in the business of making money.
And yeah, it's just that there are a lot of
civics, ethics and like philosophical people here.
And I wanted to throw my hat into the ring just a
little because I do know a little, like a thing or
two about that.
I tried to go about the psyop at UpCloud as
ethically as possible, but it's what it is.
You know, like UpCloud is trying to get your money
, unlike Tangled.
So that's, it's as simple as that basically.
Of course the Tangled account will like reply to people and
I don't know, try to be helpful and show updates
.
And you know, do the like the basics to make people
happy and show, like give announcements to let people know what
's going on under the hood.
But I don't think the Tangled should, I don
't think it's its place to be posting like a person
in the same way that UpCloud and some other companies were
doing.
Like it's just the same vibe as when, you know
, like Arby's and KFC are arguing in Instagram
comments.
Like it's, it was funny for a little bit,
but then you realize that they're still only doing this to
like get you to go to Arby's, right?
They don't actually give a shit at all.
Like whoever's the face is also pretty funny.
Well, me at UpCloud, but you know, but
again, it's just like when people ask real questions,
especially on the Fediverse, they're like asking, when
are you going to do BGP as UpCloud?
Because you know, it's a cloud company and they don
't have like managed BGP or you can't just
like send arbitrary BGP things like other clouds.
And I personally am a nerd and I want that also,
and I pass on every request and you know, it all
, I do my part sort of thing.
But then you are the face of this like big black entity
that's just like, you know, Kao Noshi
from that Ghibli film.
That's how I feel like, or just the mask part
of it, I guess.
And then managers are just like, yeah, yeah, keep
up the good work, whatever you're doing.
Like it doesn't matter because we're not going to like
do anything about it, but just like, you know,
say whatever it, say whatever it is to say that gets
people to buy more UpCloud.
So yeah, Tangle doesn't have that incentive, that
perverse incentive.
Yeah, that's all I had to say about psyops
.
How much time we got?
Oh yeah, we got one question in the audience.
Okay, so this gets into the money question a little bit
.
You just said that Tangle doesn't want your money,
but Tangle just took on a bunch of investment.
Right.
Ostensibly, because those investors believe that Tangle will
be able to pay back that investment.
Yeah.
Which means Tangle will want your money at some point.
Yeah, yeah.
The way that Tangle is going to try and go about
getting money is going to be hopefully fundamentally different.
To like something like a SaaS like, or IaaS or
, you know, UpCloud is infrastructure as a service.
So there's no like free tier at all.
This is the Lewis end, so I can't speak to
the company itself on how it wants to make money.
But I hope, I hope that the direction that we go
in is that we do the enterprise pays for the masses to
have it for free.
You know what I mean?
Because I want free things also.
And I want Tangle to be free for people.
We got another question over there in the audience.
Run, Boris, run.
No, you don't have to.
I didn't have a question.
I just wanted Boris to do some cardio.
I'm totally kidding.
So my question is actually going back to some of
the technical stuff you were talking about.
Because you were talking about generating dids for the nots
.
Or dids for the repositories.
Right.
So yesterday we saw Brittany Ellish talking about the need to
create a did for like a group.
Right.
And so I guess my question is if we're talking about
the repositories needing dids and the not sort of acting
as a PDS for a non-person.
And then we've got other people with these other needs to
create like non-person.
Is there anything that's fundamentally different about a repo needing a
did other than just kind of any non-human entity?
Or is this kind of pointing to the need for like we
need to be able to assign a did to an object?
I think it's the former of the two.
I think that it'll play quite well into also the permission
data stuff.
Like there's going to be a did for like a space
also.
So then hopefully this will all plug in quite nicely when that
's a spec.
And we can just say that you can also make private rep
os that way also.
That the did that was minted for a git repo can
now be a space did as well.
It's like a private.
It is an object.
It's a space.
You know at the end of the day it's just an
ID.
From my perspective I just call an API and I get an
ID back.
Or 10,000 of them.
Did that answer your question?
I think this is the kind of stuff that's emerging from
multiple different corners.
But you can start to see patterns.
There's this actor model that we see that can put all
sorts of graphs and links and edges that end up on F
IG's infrastructure.
Yeah exactly.
Yeah it's funny.
Hang on a second.
We have one minute that I want to yap about FIG
stuff.
So at UpCloud I was very cloud native pilled.
So it's like fast food.
It's like oh you want to host objects so use object
storage.
Just spin it up.
Just spin up a managed object storage.
Just so easy.
And then you're kind of locked into that.
But then you're like oh I need a database.
Well it's so easy to have a managed Postgres instance
.
And I was like very wrapped up in that obviously.
Because I mean I just get nerd sniped like the rest
of us.
And these are all very interesting technologies.
But in the month that I have been at Tangled and
no longer have free cloud credits.
All of a sudden I have to run things on.
I mean for Tranquil PDS that I do in
my spare time.
The goal is kind of to run it on a vape
natively.
And so this relates to FIG stuff.
Because we're trying to get things as cheap and as small
.
And as you know like I don't know.
They're like permacomputing principles.
Like what is the smallest that I can make this.
That still works and works perfectly.
You know what I mean?
I don't know where I was going with that.
But I just wanted to stop with that.
Because I guess that's time basically.
Right?
Thank you very much Lewis.
Thank you
.